README file for run-free.

Original Author: Karl N. Redman (A.K.A. parasyte of knowledge) - parasyte@enteract.com
Project home page: run-free.sourceforge.net


DESCRIPTION:

run-free is a free, GNU licensed command line launcher for your chosen X Windows desktop environment. 
It's purpose is allow the user to enter command lines at the GUI level without having to launch a 
terminal/xterm. The program was inspired by Gnome Run found in Red Hat distributions and is a complete 
rewrite of same using GTK. 


While run-free is currently in it's early development stage it does have the following features:

       Program output may be viewed optionally from a launched terminal. 
       A somewhat working file browser 
       Command line editing 
       Command line history (somewhat working) 
       Relatively decent keystroke operation (as opposed to being run only through the mouse) 

Future versions are expected to contain the following features:

       A working, tab driven, target predicting file browser 
       command line completion from history 
       vi, emacs, whatever else, command line editing (by configuration choice) 
       better configuration support (right now everything is compiled in) 
       configurable keystroke support 
       documentation on how to get it to work best under each popular window manager. 




OPERAION:

The run-free and run-free-kbhit programs must be in your execution path. To do this add

run-free must be run from a directory that is writable by the user executing the program.

You can execute run-free from within your window manager via hotkey if you desire (the main 
reason I made the program to begin with).

Use run-free by entering a comand line in the entry box and press enter or click the 'run' 
button.  To see output from you command click the 'run in terminal' radio button. By default
run-free uses an xterm to display command output from a 'run in terminal' mode. You can change 
this by editing the header file run-free.h and recompiling the program (I use Eterm myself).

You can reexecute a previous command using your arrow-down key or by scrolling through the 
entry box list.

The keystrokes that run free allows are as follows:
	DOWN-arrow 	= move through history or move around the different buttons
	UP-arrow 	= move around the different buttons
	TAB 		= same as UP-arrow key 
	CTRL-t		= (control + t) toggle 'run in terminal' mode
	CTRL-b		= (control + b) opens the file browser
	ENTER		= executes the command (or none if there is no command)
	ESC		= cancel operation and close window


DETAILS:

run-free is made up of two programs: run-free and run-free-kbhit. I estimate that the run-free-kbhit program
may go away at some point but it is used currently because run-free started out as a quick and dirty program.
run-free executes run-free-kbhit when the program is operation in 'run in terminal' mode. A history file called
.run-free is created in the directory where run-free is executed from when a command is executed. 


DEVELOPMENT:
The run-free tarball contains an RPM spec file for creating a .rpm package if desired. I've included this spec file
in order to allow users of other operating systems to test out and build the package if they so desire.


BUILDING:

	Building from tarball:
		
		(NOTE: see the INSTALL file for more details on building from a tarball)
	
		1. unpack the tarball somewhere writable by you (i.e. "tar zxvf run-free-1.0.0.tar.gz")

		2. go to the run-free directory tree and run configure (i.e. "./configure")

		3. run make

		4. run make install (you can run "make uninstall" later if you want to remove the programs)	

		5. start using the program


	Building for RPM:

		1. unpack the tarball somewhere writable by you (i.e. "tar zxvf run-free-1.0.0.tar.gz")

		2. go to the run-free directory

		3. build the source and binary rpms with the command "rpm -ba run-free.spec"

		4. If all goes well, then run free will have built and you'll have the binary
			and source RPMs for installation. To install the binary RPM just run
			"rpm -i [file_name]" (where file_name = the name of the rpm binary
			package that is created). You can run "rpm -qa |sort" to check 
			that run-free has been installed properly.



OTHER NOTES:

I Hope this is usefull for you and take care.
-parasyte.
